Post for 0.8.12 (#166)
ethereum/solidity-blog: _posts/2022-02-16-solidity-0.8.12-release-announcement.md

---
layout: post
published: true
title: 'Solidity 0.8.12 Release Announcement'
date: '2022-02-16'
author: Solidity Team
category: Releases
---

[Solidity v0.8.12](https://github.com/ethereum/solidity/releases/tag/v0.8.12)
improves the javascript/wasm binary and fixes several bugs.

## Notable New Features

> ### Emscripten build / solcjs

Reviewer: This should probably be capitalized like other headers:
```suggestion
### Emscripten Build / solc-js
```

The code for the javascript wrappers of the compiler has been partially

> ported to TypeScript, which also impacts some of the aspects of the npm package.

Reviewer: To be precise, it should actually not impact the npm package at all (other than now it contains JS compiled from TS). You should not have to change your imports for example.

What it impacts is the package build process (but that's on us) and anyone using the repo directly rather than the package.

> We hope this is seamless to you but please do not hesitate to provide feedback.

Reviewer: I'd add a separate header for the typescript migration. These were really two completely independent things.

> Furthermore, we were able to reduce the size of the javascript / emscripten

Reviewer: Maybe mentioning WASM would be a good idea. `emscripten / wasm`?

binaries from 27 megabytes to just over 8. The reason for the large binary
in the first place is that we include the SMT solver Z3.
The size reduction is achieved by compressing the binary using LZ4 and
decompressing it when it is loaded, which should be completely transparent to the user.
We were initially worried that this might have a negative impact on people who
switch compiler versions often or always run it in a fresh nodejs environment,

> but it turns out that the decompression is faster than the base64-decoding,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
but it turns out that the decompression is faster than the base64 decoding,
```

> but it turns out that the decompression is faster than the base64-decoding,

Reviewer: I'd qualify that statement just to be safe, though I hope that it won't turn out to be slower in some weird setups or with older versions.
```suggestion
but our benchmarks show that the decompression is faster than the base64-decoding,
```
